#labels Featured
= Downloading OpenXION =

The most recent release version of OpenXION can be downloaded from [http://code.google.com/p/openxion/downloads/list the Downloads tab].

If you are on a Windows system, look for a file called *OpenXION-x.x-distwin.zip* where x.x is the most recent version number.

If you are on a Mac OS X or other Unix- or Linux-based system, look for a file called *OpenXION-x.x-dist.zip* where x.x is the most recent version number.

This file contains everything you need to use OpenXION. All you need to do is unzip it to a directory of your choice.

= Launching OpenXION =

You can use OpenXION without any formal installation procedure. Just cd to the directory where the archive was unzipped, then run the xion command.

On Windows:
{{{
xion
}}}

On other systems:
{{{
./xion
}}}

You will get a > prompt. Enter any XION statement to execute it, or any XION expression to evaluate it. To exit OpenXION, at the > prompt enter:

{{{
exit
}}}

For a list of command line options, run the xion command with the --help option.

On Windows:
{{{
xion --help
}}}

On other systems:
{{{
./xion --help
}}}

To execute an XION script file, run the xion command with the name of the script file.

On Windows:
{{{
xion hello.xn
}}}

On other systems:
{{{
./xion hello.xn
}}}

= Installing OpenXION =

If you would like to use OpenXION from anywhere on your system, as opposed to just the directory where you unzipped it, simply run the install command with administrator privileges.

On Windows:
{{{
runas /user:Administrator cmd
install
exit
}}}

On other systems:
{{{
sudo ./install
}}}

On Windows systems, the jars and xion, xiondoc, and xe commands are installed in `C:\Windows\System32`. On other systems, the jars are installed in `/usr/lib` and the `xion`, `xiondoc`, and `xe` commands are installed in `/usr/bin`. You can then delete the unzipped directory.

= Installing OpenXION from Source =

If you would like to use the bleeding-edge version of OpenXION, you may download, run, and install OpenXION from the svn repository. The instructions here assume Mac OS X or another Unix- or Linux-based system. If you are on Windows, you're on your own. The first step is probably to use Cygwin to do this; good luck with that.

Use this command to anonymously check out the latest project source code:

{{{
svn co http://openxion.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/main/java/OpenXION/ openxion
}}}

To compile OpenXION, cd to the checked-out directory, then run make:

{{{
make
}}}

This will generate everything: the jar files, the various tgz files available on the Downloads page, the Javadocs, the XIONDocs, and the distributable zips.

To install OpenXION, run make install with administrator privileges:

{{{
sudo make install
}}}

The jars will be installed in /usr/lib and the xion, xiondoc, and xe commands will be installed in /usr/bin.

= Getting Started with OpenXION =

To get started with OpenXION, follow the [http://www.openxion.org/tutorial.html tutorial] on [http://www.openxion.org openxion.org].