#summary Release notes from version 1.4 of OpenXION.

= OpenXION 1.4 is out! =

OpenXION 1.4 is the latest release version of OpenXION, the reference
implementation of XION, the open scripting language based on !HyperTalk.
Version 1.4 introduces some new features and fixes major issues with lists,
dictionaries, and chunk types.

= Format =

Use the `format` function to produce formatted strings using placeholders
rather than string concatenation. Use the `'` function to make formatted
strings easily localizable.

= Map, Filter, and Reduce =

Use the `map`, `filter`, and `reduce` functions to quickly manipulate lists.
Given a list and a function name, `map` will apply the function to each element
in the list, `filter` will return only elements where the function returns true,
and `reduce` will collapse all the elements into a single value using the function
to combine two elements.

= Use OpenXION as a CGI Backend for Web Apps =

Pass the `-W` option to the OpenXION interpreter, and the interpreter will
import all CGI-related environment variables into the OpenXION environment.
It will also automatically parse GET and POST query strings into dictionaries.

= New Documentation Generator =

XIONDoc 1.3 is a complete rewrite of XIONDoc that uses a real XML parser to
read documentation files. The new XIONDoc now produces a page for each term
individually, greatly reducing loading times. The new documentation includes
new 'at a Glance' pages for data types and properties as well as keywords,
commands, and functions.

= Bug Fixes =

  * Putting into a list chunk now puts the thing itself, rather than the thing as a list.
  * The `::` operator now properly appends to a list, rather than concatenating lists.
  * Checking if `there is a` chunk (character, word, element, byte, etc.) now works as you'd expect.
  * No longer crashes when attempting to access a dictionary entry that doesn't exist.
  * No longer crashes when setting the `mathProcessor` property.
  * No longer crashes when passing infinity or NaN to a function expecting an integer.

----

= Previous Release Notes =

[ReleaseNotes13]
[ReleaseNotes12]